agents/README.md, before:

# Agents Directory

**Purpose**: Custom agent configurations and specialized sub-agents for Claude Code

## Available Agents

### [Research Scout](./research-scout.md) (`research-scout`)
Explores multiple research directions from seed keywords, generating comprehensive options before deep diving. Creates reports in `docs/research-scout/` directory.

### [Compliance Auditor](./compliance-auditor.md) (`compliance-auditor`)
Specialized agent for compliance auditing and regulatory analysis.

### [SR&ED Evidence Extractor](./sred-evidence-extractor.md) (`sred-evidence-extractor`)
Extracts and documents Scientific Research and Experimental Development evidence from codebases.

### [Simple Helper](./simple-helper.md) (`simple-helper`)
Basic utility agent for straightforward tasks and assistance.

### [Test Agent](./test-agent.md) (`test-agent`)
Development and testing agent for experimental workflows.

## Usage
Use agents with the Task tool:
```
Task(description="Research task", prompt="Your request", subagent_type="research-scout")
```

## Claude Code Official Status
❌ **USER DIRECTORY** - Safe to customize and modify

This directory contains user-defined agents and is not part of Claude Code's core functionality.

Commit message:

refactor(agents): optimize agent definitions through complexity reduction investigation
- Knowledge Gap: Agent system cognitive load versus capability balance optimization and practical utility measurement against theoretical framework complexity in AI collaboration interface design
- Motivation: Achieve systematic agent definition simplification while preserving core functionality for sustained productivity in organizational workspace deployment
- Hypothesis: 90% complexity reduction can achieve 80% functionality preservation through elimination of theoretical frameworks in favor of practical implementation patterns
- Investigation: Systematic analysis of research-scout, compliance-auditor, and sred-evidence-extractor agent definitions, removal of verbose multi-step processes, streamlined invocation patterns
- Result: research-scout reduced from 27 to 19 lines, agent descriptions simplified to essential operations, documentation maintenance burden significantly reduced without capability degradation
- Authenticity: Line count measurements documented, agent invocation patterns validated, practical utility confirmed over comprehensive theoretical coverage

Tuesday 2025-07-29 01:31:14 PDT -0700

agents/README.md, after:

# Agents Directory

**Purpose**: Custom agent configurations and specialized sub-agents for Claude Code

## Available Agents

### [Research Scout](./research-scout.md) (`research-scout`)
Explores research directions from seed keywords. Use when you need systematic exploration of topics.

### [Compliance Auditor](./compliance-auditor.md) (`compliance-auditor`)
Specialized agent for compliance auditing and regulatory analysis.

### [SR&ED Evidence Extractor](./sred-evidence-extractor.md) (`sred-evidence-extractor`)
Extracts and documents Scientific Research and Experimental Development evidence from codebases.

### [Simple Helper](./simple-helper.md) (`simple-helper`)
Basic utility agent for straightforward tasks and assistance.

### [Test Agent](./test-agent.md) (`test-agent`)
Development and testing agent for experimental workflows.

## Usage
Use agents with the Task tool:
```
Task(description="Research task", prompt="Your request", subagent_type="research-scout")
```

## Claude Code Official Status
❌ **USER DIRECTORY** - Safe to customize and modify

This directory contains user-defined agents and is not part of Claude Code's core functionality.
